[DOC-7831] Document serverless privatelink support (#17461)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/aws-privatelink.md

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<div class="filters clearfix">
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="dedicated">{{ site.data.products.dedicated }}</button>
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="serverless">Multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }}</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
You must configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster in {{ site.data.products.db }} and in AWS. For {{ site.data.products.db }}, you can use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) or [Terraform Provider](provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html). For help, refer to [Establish VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-your-cluster.html#establish-gcp-vpc-peering-or-aws-privatelink).

If you have multiple clusters, you will have to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> You must configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster in {{ site.data.products.db }} and in AWS. For {{ site.data.products.db }}, you can use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) or [Terraform Provider](provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html). For help, refer to [Establish VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-a-serverless-cluster.html#establish-aws-privatelink).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster in {{ site.data.products.db }} and in AWS. For {{ site.data.products.db }}, you can use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) or [Terraform Provider](provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html). For help, refer to [Establish AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-a-serverless-cluster.html#establish-aws-privatelink).
```

    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab. PrivateLink connections that have already been configured are shown as a private endpoint allowlist.
1. To add a new private connection, click **Add Connection** to open the connection dialog.

Continue to [Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-endpoint).

</section>

## Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint

{% capture security_group_substeps %}
    <ul><li>In the **Security group name** field, enter a name for the security group.</li>
    <li>In the **Description** field, enter a description for the security group.</li>
    <li>From the **VPC** dropdown, select the VPC you chose in Step 4.</li>
    <li><ul><li>In the **Inbound rules** section, click **Add rule**.</li><li>Enter *26257* in the **Port range** field.</li><li>In the **Source** field, enter the CIDR range from Step 5.</li></ul></li>
    <li>Click **Create security group**.</li></ul>
{% endcapture %}

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> Complete these steps once for each private endpoint or VPC endpoint in your AWS account that will be used to privately connect to one or more of your {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }} clusters. If you connect additional clusters to the same private endpoint or VPC endpoint, you do not need to make additional changes to the VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete these steps once for each private endpoint in your AWS account that will be used to privately connect to one or more of your {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }} clusters. If you connect additional clusters to the same private endpoint, you do not need to make additional changes in your AWS account.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

</section>

1. <a name="step-1"></a>Select the region to create a connection in.

1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection dialog.

   Make a note of the availability zones where your cluster is deployed in this region.

1. On the [Amazon VPC Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) in your AWS account, click **Your VPCs** in the sidebar.

1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in.

>     Cockroach Labs recommends that you use a VPC that has subnets in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and that your application or service is also deployed in the same availability zones. You can choose a different VPC for the private endpoint or VPC endpoint as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint or VPC endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Cockroach Labs recommends that you use a VPC that has subnets in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and that your application or service is also deployed in the same availability zones. You can choose a different VPC for the private endpoint as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.
```

If you have multiple clusters, you will have to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

</section>

## Step 1. Set up a cluster

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

1. Use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console to [create your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](create-your-cluster.html) on AWS in the same region as your application.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    If you have a multi-region cluster, you will have to create a PrivateLink connection for each region you are operating in.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab.
1. Click **Add Connection** to open the connection dialog.

Continue to [Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-endpoint).

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

> 1. Use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console to [create a multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](create-a-serverless-cluster.html) on AWS in the same region as your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console to [create a multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](create-a-serverless-cluster.html) on AWS in the same regions as your application.
```

    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab. PrivateLink connections that have already been configured are shown as a private endpoint allowlist.
1. To add a new private connection, click **Add Connection** to open the connection dialog.

Continue to [Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-endpoint).

</section>

## Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated serverless">

{% capture security_group_substeps %}
    <ul><li>In the **Security group name** field, enter a name for the security group.</li>
    <li>In the **Description** field, enter a description for the security group.</li>
    <li>From the **VPC** dropdown, select the VPC you chose in Step 4.</li>
    <li><ul><li>In the **Inbound rules** section, click **Add rule**.</li><li>Enter *26257* in the **Port range** field.</li><li>In the **Source** field, enter the CIDR range from Step 5.</li></ul></li>
    <li>Click **Create security group**.</li></ul>
{% endcapture %}

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> Complete these steps once for each VPC in your AWS account that will be used to privately connect to one or more of your {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }} clusters. If you connect additional clusters to the same VPC, you do not need to make additional changes to the VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete these steps once for each private endpoint in your AWS account that will be used to privately connect to one or more of your {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }} clusters. If you connect additional clusters to the same private endpoint, you do not need to make additional changes to the VPC.
```

    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab. PrivateLink connections that have already been configured are shown. A maximum of one PrivateLink connection can be configured.
1. To add a new private connection, click **Add Connection** to open the connection modal.

</section>

## Create an AWS endpoint

{% capture security_group_substeps %}
    <ul><li>In the **Security group name** field, enter a name for the security group.</li>
    <li>In the **Description** field, enter a description for the security group.</li>
    <li>From the **VPC** dropdown, select the VPC you chose in Step 4.</li>
    <li><ul><li>In the **Inbound rules** section, click **Add rule**.</li><li>Enter *26257* in the **Port range** field.</li><li>In the **Source** field, enter the CIDR range from Step 5.</li></ul></li>
    <li>Click **Create security group**.</li></ul>
{% endcapture %}

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

> 1. Select the region to create a connection in.

Author: This list breaks when it's in a filter-content section but not when I comment out the sections, it seems like it is ignore the `markdown="1"`. It breaks even before I capture the sublist into a variable. Hoping others can spot what I'm doing wrong.

1. On the **Create Endpoint** page, for the **Service Category** field, select **Find service by name**.
1. In the **Service Name** field, enter the **Service Name** copied from the connection modal in [Step 1](#step-1).
1. Click **Verify**.
1. In the **VPC** field, enter the ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in.
1. Verify that the subnets are pre-populated.
1. In the **Security group** section, select the security group you created in [Step 8](#step-8) and uncheck the box for **default** security group.
1. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The VPC Endpoint ID displays.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                                --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \
                                --subnet-ids {SUBNET_ID1} {SUBNET_ID2} \
                                --vpc-endpoint-type Interface \

>                                 --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2| \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                                --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
```
Is this causing the breakage?

Reviewer 3: I did some playing around, and I think I found the source of the breakage:

- Single-level `section`s with Markdown render as Markdown.
- Double-level `section`s with Markdown in the inner `section` will render the Markdown in the inner `section`.
- Double-level `section`s with HTML in the outer `section` and Markdown in the inner `section` will render both items as we expect.
- Double-level `section`s with Markdown in both the outer and inner `section`s will only render Markdown in the inner `section`. The outer `section`'s Markdown will be interpreted as raw text in a `p` tag.

The solution here is to end the outer section and then start a new section that consists of only HTML elements **or** `sections` containing markdown with the `markdown="1"` attribute.

I did update this line and also balanced the `section` tags. Gonna send a new PR.

@mdlinville

---

> title: Managing AWS PrivateLink for a cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
title: Managing AWS PrivateLink for a cluster
```

<div class="filters clearfix">
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="dedicated">{{ site.data.products.dedicated }}</button>
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="serverless">Multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }}</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
You must also configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using the Console UI, Cloud API or Terraform Provider, so that {{ site.data.products.db }} can accept the new connection. For help, refer to [Establish VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-your-cluster.html#establish-gcp-vpc-peering-or-aws-privatelink).

If you have multiple clusters, you will have to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> For each region where you deploy {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters with private connections, you must also configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for {{ site.data.products.serverless }} using the Console UI, Cloud API or Terraform Provider, so that {{ site.data.products.db }} can accept the new connection.

Reviewer 4: Note that this also applies to multi-region dedicated clusters. Any reason why this was only called out in the serverless tab?

Author: In the Dedicated tab, it says instead:

```
You must also configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using the Console UI, Cloud API or Terraform Provider, so that {{ site.data.products.db }} can accept the new connection. For help, refer to [Establish VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-your-cluster.html#establish-gcp-vpc-peering-or-aws-privatelink).

If you have multiple clusters, you will have to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.
```

Is that not accurate?

Reviewer: Yeah I think we're good here. I think Matt is being specific because in Serverless it doesn't apply to single-region clusters, which makes sense.

</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-console">

1. Click **Endpoints** in the sidebar.
1. Click **Create Endpoint**.
1. On the **Create Endpoint** page, for the **Service Category** field, select **Find service by name**.
1. In the **Service Name** field, enter the **Service Name** copied from the connection modal in [Step 1](#step-1).
1. Click **Verify**.
1. In the **VPC** field, enter the ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in.
1. Verify that the subnets are pre-populated.
1. In the **Security group** section, select the security group you created in [Step 8](#step-8) and uncheck the box for **default** security group.
1. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The VPC Endpoint ID displays.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \

>                                   --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \

Author: @nickvigilante I think a tooling bug might be requiring these extra two spaces on hanging indent. WDYT? I've verified that there are no tab characters in the file.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                                  --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \
                                  --subnet-ids {SUBNET_ID1} {SUBNET_ID2} \
                                  --vpc-endpoint-type Interface \
                                  --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
                                  --service-name {SERVICE_NAME_PROVIDED_BY_COCKROACH}
    ~~~

1. Locate the VPC Endpoint ID in the CLI output.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

</section>

## Step 3. Verify the endpoint ID

1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter the Endpoint ID, then click **Validate**. If validation fails, check the endpoint ID and try again. Otherwise, click **Next**.

1. Click **Next**.

> 1. Enter the Endpoint ID, then click **Validate**. If validation fails, check the endpoint ID and try again. Otherwise, click **Next**.

Reviewer 4: Duplicated sections here

> 1. Follow the instructions in the modal to enable **private DNS name** for the endpoint in AWS. When this option is enabled, {{ site.data.products.db }} maintains private DNS records in the VPC for each {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster with PrivateLink enabled in the region.

Reviewer 4: I see the following for the dedicated tab as well:
> Follow the instructions in the modal to enable private DNS name for the endpoint in AWS. When this option is enabled, CockroachDB Cloud maintains private DNS records in the VPC for each CockroachDB Serverless cluster with PrivateLink enabled in the region.

Author: It's only the last sentence that needs to be tweaked for Dedicated, correct?

    If you have a multi-region cluster, you will have to create a PrivateLink connection for each region you are operating in.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab.
1. Click **Add Connection** to open the connection modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

1. Use the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console to [create a multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](create-a-serverless-cluster.html) on AWS in the same region as your application.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    **Multi-region for {{ site.data.products.serverless }} is in [preview](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html)** and subject to change. You cannot currently add or remove regions once a cluster has been created. To share feedback and/or issues, contact [Support](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Navigate to the **Networking** page.
1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab. PrivateLink connections that have already been configured are shown. A maximum of one PrivateLink connection can be configured.

> 1. To add a new private connection, click **Add Connection** to open the connection modal.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add Connection** to open the connection dialog.
```

1. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The VPC Endpoint ID displays.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                                  --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \
                                  --subnet-ids {SUBNET_ID1} {SUBNET_ID2} \
                                  --vpc-endpoint-type Interface \
                                  --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
                                  --service-name {SERVICE_NAME_PROVIDED_BY_COCKROACH}
    ~~~

1. Locate the VPC Endpoint ID in the CLI output.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

> 1. <a name="step-1"></a>Select the region to create a connection in. All of your {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters in this region that use PrivateLink will share this connection.

Author: Just insert two spaces -- we should not be using literal tab characters anyway. I edited your edit.

> 1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection modal. Make a note of the availability zones where your cluster is deployed in this region.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection dialog.

    Make a note of the availability zones where your cluster is deployed in this region.
```

1. On the [Amazon VPC Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) in your AWS account, click **Your VPCs** in the sidebar.

> 1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in. Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

Reviewer 5: new line suggestion would also apply here

> 1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in. Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

Author: ```suggestion
1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in.

    Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.
```

1. In the **Security group** section, select the security group you created in [Step 8](#step-8) and uncheck the box for **default** security group.
1. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The VPC Endpoint ID displays.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                                  --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \
                                  --subnet-ids {SUBNET_ID1} {SUBNET_ID2} \
                                  --vpc-endpoint-type Interface \
                                  --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
                                  --service-name {SERVICE_NAME_PROVIDED_BY_COCKROACH}
    ~~~

1. Locate the VPC Endpoint ID in the CLI output.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

</section>

> ## Step 3. Verify the endpoint ID

Reviewer 5: Should this also have steps for Serverless? It's empty here: https://deploy-preview-17461--cockroachdb-docs.netlify.app/docs/cockroachcloud/aws-privatelink?filters=serverless#step-3-verify-the-endpoint-id

Author: Done by correcting line 225.

> ## Step 3. Verify the endpoint ID

Author: ```suggestion
<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated serverless">

## Step 3. Verify the endpoint ID
```

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter the Endpoint ID, then click **Validate**. If validation fails, check the endpoint ID and try again. Otherwise, click **Next**.
1. Follow the instructions in the modal to enable **private DNS name** for the endpoint in AWS. When this option is enabled, {{ site.data.products.db }} maintains private DNS records in the VPC for the cluster.
1. Click **Complete** to save the configuration and close the modal.

</section>

> <section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

Author: ```suggestion
<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">
```

<div class="filters clearfix">
  <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="aws-console">AWS Console</button>
  <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="aws-cli">AWS CLI</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-console">

1. On the Amazon VPC Console **Endpoints** page, select the endpoint you created.
1. Click **Actions**.
1. Click **Modify Private DNS Names**.
1. Check the **Enable Private DNS Name** checkbox.
1. Click **Modify Private DNS Name**.
1. In the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, click **Complete** to save the configuration and close the modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

After the endpoint status changes to Available, run the following AWS CLI command:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
aws ec2 modify-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                              --vpc-endpoint-id {VPC_ENDPOINT_ID} \
                              --private-dns-enabled
~~~

The endpoint status will change to Pending.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

> After a short (less than 5 minute) delay, the status will change to Available. You can now [connect to your cluster](connect-to-your-cluster.html)

Reviewer 5: same suggestion for Serverless

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

> After a short (less than 5 minute) delay, the status will change to Available. You can now [connect to your cluster](connect-to-a-serverless-cluster.html).

Author: ```suggestion
After a few minutes, the status will change to Available. You can now [connect to your cluster](connect-to-a-serverless-cluster.html).
```

1. Select the region to create a connection in.

1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection modal.

1. On the [Amazon VPC Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) in your AWS account, click **Your VPCs** in the sidebar.

1. Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in. Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

1. On the **Your VPCs** page, locate the IPv4 CIDR corresponding to the VPC you chose in Step 4.

1. Click **Subnets** in the sidebar.

1. Locate the subnet IDs corresponding to the VPC you chose in Step 4.

1. Click **Security Groups** in the sidebar.

1. Click **Create security group** to create a security group within your VPC that allows inbound access from your application or source program on Port 26257: {{ security_group_substeps }}
</section>

> <section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated aws-console">

Reviewer 2: I think the problem might be in mixing filter groups. The way the JS shows and hides sections groups on the original filter divs. So one group is dedicated/serverless, a different group is aws-console/aws-cli.

---
title: Managing AWS PrivateLink for CockroachDB Cloud
summary: Instructions for establishing AWS PrivateLink network access for a cluster in CockroachDB Cloud.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

Amazon Web Services (AWS) PrivateLink support allows customers to establish SQL access to their clusters entirely through private AWS infrastructure, without exposure to the public internet, affording enhanced security and performance. PrivateLink is supported for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters and multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters deployed on AWS.

For broader context, refer to [Network Authorization for {{ site.data.products.db }} Clusters](network-authorization.html).

> This page describes the steps to setting up an AWS PrivateLink connection for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} and multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters from your AWS VPC Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes the steps to setting up an AWS PrivateLink connection for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} and multi-region {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters from your AWS account.
```

</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
You must also configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) or [Terraform Provider](provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html),, so that {{ site.data.products.db }} can accept the new connection. For help, refer to [Establish VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink](connect-to-your-cluster.html#establish-gcp-vpc-peering-or-aws-privatelink).

If you have multiple clusters, you will have to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
For each region where you deploy {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters with private connections, you must also configure the AWS PrivateLink connection for {{ site.data.products.serverless }} using the Console UI, Cloud API or Terraform Provider, so that {{ site.data.products.db }} can accept the new connection.

> All {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters in your organization that use private connections in a given region connect over the same shared VPC. You will have to complete these steps once per region you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.

Reviewer: Why are we referring to shared VPC here? If you're referring to shared VPC on other side, then it's factually inaccurate because one could create private endpoints to different clusters in different VPCs. And if you're referring to shared VPC on our side, then that's unnecessary because serverless as a product already means it's shared network and other resources, and we don't need to belabor that here.

1. Select the **PrivateLink** tab. PrivateLink connections that have already been configured are shown. A maximum of one PrivateLink connection can be configured.
1. Click **Add Connection** to open the connection dialog.

</section>

## Step 2. Create an AWS endpoint

{% capture security_group_substeps %}
    <ul><li>In the **Security group name** field, enter a name for the security group.</li>
    <li>In the **Description** field, enter a description for the security group.</li>
    <li>From the **VPC** dropdown, select the VPC you chose in Step 4.</li>
    <li><ul><li>In the **Inbound rules** section, click **Add rule**.</li><li>Enter *26257* in the **Port range** field.</li><li>In the **Source** field, enter the CIDR range from Step 5.</li></ul></li>
    <li>Click **Create security group**.</li></ul>
{% endcapture %}

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

1. <a name="step-1"></a>In the connection dialog, select the region to create a connection in.

1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection modal.

1. On the [Amazon VPC Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) in your AWS account, click **Your VPCs** in the sidebar.

> 1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in. Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in. Cockroach Labs recommends that you use a VPC that has subnets in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and that your application or service is also deployed in the same availability zones. You can choose a different VPC for private endpoint as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.
```

1. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The VPC Endpoint ID displays.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="aws-cli">

1. Substitute the values from the previous steps and run the following AWS CLI command:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --region {REGION} \
                                  --vpc-id {VPC_ID} \
                                  --subnet-ids {SUBNET_ID1} {SUBNET_ID2} \
                                  --vpc-endpoint-type Interface \
                                  --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
                                  --service-name {SERVICE_NAME_PROVIDED_BY_COCKROACH}
    ~~~

1. Locate the VPC Endpoint ID in the CLI output.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

1. <a name="step-1"></a>Select the region to create a connection in. 

>     All of your {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters in this region that use PrivateLink will share this connection.

Reviewer: No this is not required. Customers could create private endpoints in different VPCs on their side, with one VPC per cluster or one VPC per a combination of clusters or whatever works for them. Sharing an endpoint is not a must, it's an option for flexibility.

1. Copy the **Service Name** shown in the connection dialog.

    Make a note of the availability zones where your cluster is deployed in this region.
1. On the [Amazon VPC Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) in your AWS account, click **Your VPCs** in the sidebar.
1. <a name="step-4"></a>Locate the VPC ID of the VPC you want to create your endpoint in.

>     Cockroach Labs recommends that you create the VPC in the availability zones where your cluster is deployed, and as near as possible to the availability zones where your application or service is deployed. You can also choose a different VPC as long as it is peered to the VPC your application is running in and the private endpoint is configured to be DNS-accessible across the peered VPCs.

Reviewer: Should change it similar to the suggestion for dedicated above.

>    All of your {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters in this region that use PrivateLink will share this connection.

Reviewer: Not true. Can we please remove this? There can be multiple private endpoints across clusters in an org, and they could be deployed in different VPCs.

                                  --security-group-ids {SECURITY_GROUP_ID1} {SECURITY_GROUP_ID2} \
                                  --service-name {SERVICE_NAME_PROVIDED_BY_COCKROACH}
    ~~~

1. Locate the VPC Endpoint ID in the CLI output.

1. Copy the Endpoint ID to your clipboard and return to {{ site.data.products.db }}'s **Add PrivateLink** modal.

</section>

</section>

## Step 3. Verify the endpoint ID

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter the Endpoint ID, then click **Validate**. If validation fails, check the endpoint ID and try again. Otherwise, click **Next**.
1. Follow the instructions in the modal to enable **private DNS name** for the endpoint in AWS. When this option is enabled, {{ site.data.products.db }} maintains private DNS records in the VPC for the cluster.
1. Click **Complete** to save the configuration and close the modal.

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter the Endpoint ID, then click **Validate**. If validation fails, check the endpoint ID and try again. Otherwise, click **Next**.

> 1. Follow the instructions in the modal to enable **private DNS name** for the endpoint in AWS. When this option is enabled, {{ site.data.products.db }} maintains private DNS records in the VPC for each {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster with PrivateLink enabled in the region.

Reviewer: I think the language referring to each serverless cluster enabled with PrivateLink is confusing and may lead to incorrect interpretation. I would remove that and make it same as in the dedicated section.
